# Research Practices

## Lab Notebooks
Documenting your progress on a scientific project is one of the most critical things you can learn to do well. Every time you do work on an experiment (e.g., analyze a dataset, run a participant, change a setting, etc.) it should be documented in such a way that another scientist could follow the trail of data acquisition and analysis up to the last entry. In this laboratory, your lab notebooks are open to all lab members to view at any time, and must be kept either in a publicly visible, online repository (e.g., OSF.io) or in an accessible format on the laboratory Google Drive (e.g., .txt, .pdf). Dr. Rojas keeps his experiments in Labstep, and all entries by students and other lab personnel involved on his projects are made exclusively in Labstep.

## Scripting vs. GUI analysis
Interactive graphical user interfaces (GUIs) are nice for learning how to use software packages, and they require little effort to learn before a new lab member can start analyzing data. GUIs are not good for generating replicable, robust scientific analyses, however, because it is too easy to make a different choice without realizing the error when you analyze different datasets. Therefore, although some learning will occur in GUIs in this laboratory, all final analyses for manuscripts submitted for publication must come from scripts. The goal of the scripts is to allow full replication of your result, given the raw data, using only scripts and the computer environmental settings needed to run the scripts (e.g., operating system, installed software and pathway settings). Scripts can be in a variety of languages, from shell scripts to MATLAB to R to Python.

## Registration of hypotheses and methods
Scientific experiments can be exploratory or confirmatory (hypothesis driven). It is important to distinguish the two to avoid questionable research practices such as [p-hacking](https://statisticalbullshit.com/2017/07/17/p-hacking/) and hypothesizing after results are known ([HARKing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HARKing)). A key characteristic of hypothesis-driven research is pre-registration. Without pre-registration, a study should be considered exploratory, or pilot research. Non-peer reviewed preregistration can be accomplished via the [Open Science Framework](https://osf.io/), [AsPredicted.org](https://aspredicted.org/), or [ClinicalTrials.gov](https://clinicaltrials.gov/). Peer reviewed pre-registration can occur in any peer-reviewed journal that accepts registered reports. If you intend to conduct confirmatory research, please discuss the best venue for pre-registration with Dr. Rojas. Please note that a multi-project dissertation could include both exploratory and confirmatory research projects.